Class: [[Intro to Software Engineering]]
Date: 09-03-2025
Topics: #software-engineering #project-qa #team3

1. Should we use actual Wright State course catalog data, or is simplified mock data acceptable? If real data, how many courses per major/minor are expected?  
Ans: Please use actual course catalog data. Please select 2 majors and 2 minors and use the basic required courses. For elective courses, you can just pick a standardized set as opposed to multiple options.
2. Do we need to implement actual Wright State course scheduling (fall/spring/summer offerings), or can we use simplified scheduling?  
Ans: You can use simplified scheduling. You do not need to query actual course offering schedules and just mock up semesters when certain courses are offered. Summer sessions are not required, but can be used as optional place holders if a student cannot graduate on time. However, please factor in scenarios where a course may only be offered in one semester and a student would be forced to take a summer class or delay graduation if they miss the class offering due to a co-op.
3. How detailed should prerequisite chains be? Should we handle complex scenarios like "Course A OR Course B" prerequisites?  
Ans: We do not need to worry about OR scenarios. However, all other pre-requisite chains should be followed.
4. The requirement states passwords "do not need to be hashed" - is this intentional for simplicity, or should we follow security best practices?  
Ans: This was for simplicity. Some teams may want to implement hashing as either a main feature or stretch goal.
5. Should we implement session management, or is basic login/logout sufficient?  
Ans: Basic log in and log out is more than enough.
6. For the "can complete degree in X years" feature - should this account for course scheduling conflicts, limited seat availability, or just prerequisite sequencing?  
Ans: Just course scheduling and semester offering conflicts. We do not need to worry about any seat availability scenarios.
7. What information should be included in co-op approval requests? What criteria should faculty use for approval/denial?  
Ans: The student should just indicate the semester in which they want to do the co-op and whether they want to extend their degree time period to facilitate the co-op. The system should automatically determine whether this is possible. The faculty should use the system decision to approve or deny.
8. Should the system handle course substitutions or transfer credits?  
Ans: No need to handle substitutions or transfer credits.
9. Are there any technology stack requirements or restrictions (database type, programming language, frameworks)?  
Ans: No tech stack restrictions. Feel free to use what you want.
10. What level of UI polish is expected - basic functionality or more refined user experience?  
Ans: UI should be simple with basic error checking built in. I am not looking for a fully polished UI, however, basic cases such as flagging if a user does not provide a password or user name or sets a password/username of incorrect length should be handled. I would lean towards keeping the UI as simple as possible without too much clutter. Think of what are the most basic features that are needed for the 3 user groups.
11. Should we implement real email notifications for approvals, or just in-system notifications?  
Ans: Basic in-system notifications are more than enough.
12. Can students modify their major/minor selections after faculty approval, or does this require re-approval?  
Ans: If students modify their schedule, the faculty need not reapprove. However, the faculty should be sent an in-system message saying that a student has modified their schedule.
13. How should conflicts be handled when a student's schedule changes affect their graduation timeline?  
Ans: This should generate an in-system message for both the faculty and the student. It should then allow the student and faculty to suggest alternate graduation timelines and attempt to see if that is feasible based on the schedule change.
14. Do we have to consider times of classes and timing conflicts when building scheduling?  
Ans: Yes, class timing should be considered.
15. Should we allow students to build a schedule or do we autogenerate an example that they can change?  
Ans: Schedules should be autogenerated based on majors/minors/co-ops and the duration of study. After that, students and faculty should be able to make changes.
16. Are advisors assigned by college of focus? i.e An advisor in the College of Health, Education, and Human Services for a psychology major.  
Ans: Faculty should be generic, they are not from any specific college or major.
17. Can we hardcode majors and minors for testing students.  
Ans: Yes.
18. Can we do majors and minors of the same subject matter? i.e. Psychology major and minor.  
Ans: Yes, but make sure a student cannot both the major and minor as that would not be valid from the degree program.
19. Can we also use certificate courses in the place of a minor?  
Ans: Sure.
20. For the different students (ex: student 4 and student 5), can they have the same classes, or do they have to be different? (ex: if student 4 has CEG, can student 5 also have CEG?)  
Ans: yes, students can have the same classes.
21. For the different student types, do the majors have to be distinct from each other or can they be the same across the different student types. For instance, can the student types of 2 major 2 minor and 2 major 1 minor have the same 2 majors such CS / IT or do they have to be different from each other.  
Ans: The project requires two majors and two minors. A certificate can also be an alternate for a minor. The major and minor can be from the same degree. As long as the 5 example students cover the two majors and 2 minors, I am ok if there are repeats.
22. Do we need to consider student enrollment types: undergrad versus grad versus "4+1"?  
Ans: We can keep the students simple as just a generic undergrad student.
23. Should the course catalog be modifiable after initial creation? either by developers or by an admin perhaps?  
Ans: Sure, the catalog can be made modifiable by admins after creation.
24. For graduate students can we plan to finish a week or two before the end of semester and not worry about further weekly reports. Then use remaining semester time on our presentation?  
Ans: Yes, grad students can finish one week early and use the last week for the grad only presentation.
25. Did you give us a deadline for completing the Requirements Presentation, or is that something we will work on and complete at the same time as the project?  
Ans: The requirements presentation will be in the first week of October. However, all teams should be simultaneously developing the project and not wait for the presentation to start development.
26. Is there a different login page for each type of user?  
Ans: No, it is a single log-in that decides based on the username.
27. What does using a single interface for all users mean?  
Ans: Yes, the interface is universal and should change only based on specific user permissions.
28. What are the most important features? What should be the focus? How would you rate them?  
Ans: **Everything listed on the initial project requirements are the most important. Further, anything discussed as requirements as part of the Q/A are most important. As long as those are completed, you have a minimally viable product. My recommendation is for all teams to compile a set of requirements and submit them to me for final review.**
29. Is the team website the same as the website for the project?  
Ans: It can be the same website. If you opt for the same website, just create a separate section to include the team information.
30. For the requirement document portion of the project, are we expected to have a formal requirement document to submit, or are we forgoing the formal document in favor of weekly reports? Are the weekly reports replacing the formal requirement document to adhere more closely to an agile style of development?  
Ans: We will still have a requirements document. A template is provided in [#project-templates](https://wsuf25ceg41106110.slack.com/archives/C09AZQHGY2U).
31. How should the faculty guidance to the student be formatted? Is it text? How should the student receive the guidance? Is it through a notification?  
Ans: It should show up as a notification (example: a notifications tab that shows a +1) when the student logs in.
32. can CATS give us a DB of courses, or do we need to hand-build from the catalog?  
Ans: I would ask CaTS to see if they can give you the catalog for 2 majors and 2 minors.
33. if we only model 2 majors + 2 minors, is it fine to ignore catalog changes later?  
Ans: You can ignore university catalog changes, but it would be a good
34. for electives, okay to hard-code one option instead of multiple?  
Ans: Hard coding options is fine. If a degree requires 3 electives, you can just hard code 3.
35. how strict on scheduling: just block overlapping times + prereqs, or also credit caps?  
Ans: The scheduling should be simple and only consider pre-requisites and credit caps.
36. should we assume fixed load per term (like 15 credits), or allow flexible loads?  
Ans: Flexible load. If a student falls below 11 credits it should flag a warning. Same with if a student tries to take over 20 credits. The faculty should have to approve either request.
37. if student can't finish in target years, should system auto-extend plan or just flag it?  
Ans: It should create a proposed plan and then ask the student and faculty to approve it.7. co-op: do we just show "possible/not possible" or should it adjust the plan?  
Ans: It should provide a proposed adjusted plan and allow the student and faculty to approve it.
38. faculty approval: is it literally one click, or should they override the system's rec?  
Ans: The option should be there for the faculty to override.9. faculty edits: do you expect a full UI, or is a simple "suggest add/remove" enough?  
Ans: The UI should be universal. As a whole the faculty is just working on student schedules and approving requests.
39. admins: what's minimum required (just add/delete users, or more?)  
Ans: Admins should be able to add and remove from the catalog.
40. login rules: enforce on front-end, back-end, or both?  
Ans: I leave that up to the teams.
41. sessions: is "stay logged in until logout" enough?  
Ans: Sessions are not needed. If a person closes the browser or logs out, we can end the session.
42. UI: is desktop-only acceptable?  
Ans: Desktop is good enough.
43. what's graded heavier: code working, docs, or demo polish?  
Ans: A small set of very well developed and test requirements is what is needed. A bunch of partially implemented requirements that do not work is going to cause issues.
44. will partial implementations count if we document limits?  
Ans: Students should avoid partial implementations. Work on a small set of requirements that are well developed, tested, and shows a minimally viable product.
45. do you want automated tests, or is manual demo testing fine?  
Ans: Manual testing is fine. The testing template provided in [#project-templates](https://wsuf25ceg41106110.slack.com/archives/C09AZQHGY2U) serves as a framework for manual testing. That said, students are encouraged to try automated frameworks to get experience.
46. does the team needs to make it's own github account or should it be connected to a personal github account  
Ans: I leave that choice up to the teams.
47. When we are generating the schedule are we only supposed to create an overview saying you should take these classes these semesters? Or are we creating an official schedule that plans out their whole college schedule that includes what time they should take the class?  
Ans: The schedule should be an N-semester plan, where N is the number of semesters the student initially specifies. You can think of the base case as requiring 8 semesters for 1 degree. Then as the student adds a second major and minors, the value of N goes up or the number of credits per semester goes up. You can provide students a way in which to specify the maximum credits they want to take, and then adjust N based on the number of majors, minors, and co-ops. You do not need to create a day to day time schedule.
48. regarding the requirement template you shared, are we expected to follow that format to the letter, or is there room to adapt it slightly to reflect how we've divvied up the project tasks within our team? I ask because our approach and the complexity of certain components have shaped how we've chosen to tackle things.  
Ans: The requirements document template is a simplified version of the industry standard Software Requirements Specification (SRS). The sections all need to be there and cannot be modified.
49. Are course descriptions required? If so, what information other than prerequisites for a course should be included?  
Ans: Course descriptions are required.
50. What are all functions involving admins? Is there a set number that should be included?  
Admins should be able to assign students to faculty. Admins should be able to remove faculty from students. Admins should be able to add/remove students and faculty. Admins should be able to update usernames/passwords. Admins should be able to update catalog information.
51. Is there another project description other than the first 30 slides on the introduction slideshow? I feel like I have seen one but can't seem to locate it.  
The initial project description is pinned to this channel. Further, all Q/A discussions are the requirements. As noted in my response to question 3 asked by Jackie on Aug 29, teams should be reviewing the discussions and formulating a set of requirements for me to review. What we are undertaking right now is a standard requirements interview where new requirements are extracted through discussions with the stakeholder.
52. Should the system suggest the optimal sequence of courses to graduate on time?  
Ans: Yes
53. Should the system provide alerts if a course overlaps in time with another planned course? 
Ans: we are not worrying about course timing information
54. How detailed should faculty information be (just name, or full profile with email, office hours, etc.)?  
Ans: name, email, and office location. This information should be visible to all students assigned to the faculty. In the admin view, the admins should be able to see the same information and all information about the students assigned to the faculty, in other words, name, email, majors/minors, and graduating year.
55. Do we need to account for course availability constraints (e.g., limited seats, time conflicts)?  
Ans: No, this is not needed.
56. Should warnings appear if a student tries to schedule a course without prerequisites?  
Ans: Yes, it should provide a warning and allow the faculty to override the warning.
57. Should faculty only approve/reject co-ops, or also add comments/feedback?  
Ans: Faculty should be able to add comments.
58. Do we need to do a website or code a program?  
Ans: it can be a standalone desktop application as long as it incorporate the functionalities of the website.
59. Do we need registration or just login?  
Ans: Registration is not needed. However, admins should be able to create accounts.
60. Do username/passwords need to be stored in a database or can they be hard coded. If database does it have to be a real database like mysql or can we store credentials in a text/json file  
Ans: A database is needed. The database can be local hosted. Given the complexity, a flat file is not recommended.
61. What information do we need to store about the user, username, password, do we need to store information about their major, minor, name, etc  
Ans: This depends on the user type. For faculty --- name, email, and office location. This information should be visible to all students assigned to the faculty. In the admin view, the admins should be able to see the same information and all information about the students assigned to the faculty, in other words, name, email, majors/minors, and graduating year. For students it should be name, email, majors, minors, number of co-ops, and completion year.
62. Should we set a default of 15 credits per semester and flag anything under 11 or over 20 for faculty approval, or make the credit limits configurable in the system?  
Ans: The default can be set to 15 with the ability to have faculty overrides for under 11 or over 20.
63. Can we use 3rd party tools to create the website or does it have to be built from scratch?  
Ans: You can use 3rd party tools. However, you need to review the licensing agreement for the tools to ensure that you can use them freely. All 3rd party tools need to be described in the final requirements document that you will submit at the end of the term.